Title:                  Switch to cvs
Person responsible:     Joseph McMullin(jmcmulli@nrao.edu)
Originator of proposal: Wes Young (wyoung@nrao.edu)
Exploders targeted:     aips2-developers
Time table:
Date of issue:          2003 May 12     Done
Comments due:           2003 May 16	Done
Revised proposal:       2003 Sep 19	Done
Final comments due:     2003 Oct 15	Done
Decision date:          2003 Nov 01	Done

Statement of goals:
----------------

Switch code repository to CVS.

Background:
-----------

NRAO is trying to move to an open source model for "post-processing software
development".  Most open-source packages use CVS to do source code control.
As such, it makes sense for us to adopt the more commonly used cvs for source code 
control. Adopting cvs would also bring us more in alignment with ALMA software 
development.

Advantages to moving to CVS, 
1. Developers need not have local NRAO accounts,
2. Code tree becomes readily accesible via cvs or cvsup.
3. Network awarness "built in", i.e. no need for rai/rao/rau.
4. Branching and versioning of the code tree is readily handled via cvs, as
   opposed to our current scheme which doesn't version very well.


Summary:
--------

Replace RCS with CVS after the May stable snapshot.


Expected Impact:
----------------

The code tree will need to be moved from RCS to CVS.  This is a fairly
straight-forward process.

Rai, rao, rau, ai, ao, and au will be retired in favor of standard cvs commands.

Documentation will need to be revised for check out/in procedures.  Additionally,
the system manual will need to be revised to document versioning and new system
procedures.

The CVS port will need to be enabled on the repository machine.  CVS passwords
will need to be established for active developers.

The main repository will need to be made visible to cvs.nrao.edu for anonymous 
cvs access.

The inhale script will be modified to use anonymous cvs commands rather than ftp.

Documentation Changes:
----------------------

The System Manual will need to be updated. 
The "General Help for Programmers" will need to be updated.

Currently, a page at: http://almasw.hq.eso.org/almasw/bin/view/OFFLINE/CVSUse

Supports basic operations with CVS.
