Title:                          Require Namespace
Person responsible:             Joe McMullin (jmcmulli@nrao.edu)
Originator of proposal:         David DeBonis (ddebonis@nrao.edu)
Exploders targeted:             aips2-developers
Time table:
Date of issues:                 2004 Jun 12	Done
Comments due:                   2004 Jun 18	Done
Revised proposal:               2004 Jun 21	Done
Final comments due:             2004 Jun 25	Done
Decision date:                  2004 Jul 1	Done

Implementation			2004 Sep 11	

Statement of goals:
----------------------------
Add one namespace ("casa" - common astronomy software application) to the 
AIPS++ code tree (it is suggested, yet not within the scope of this change 
proposal, that a namespace be given for each consortia package).

Background:
------------------
As we move toward integrating AIPS++ with other C++ based packages (i.e. ACS), 
the AIPS++ libraries need to add a namespace to avoid naming conflicts with 
other packages.

Summary:
---------------
Adopt the global namespaces casa.  All aips++ header files would contain the 
"namespace casa" (it is suggested, yet not within the scope of this change 
proposal, that all consortia packages will have "namespace XXX", where XXX is 
the name of the consortia package, i.e. atnf).

Expected Impact:
--------------------------
All header files within the aips directory will have to be modified to 
incorporate

namespace  casa {
...
}

For this change proposal, we will write a script to add "namespace casa {
... }" to all aips++ header and source files.  The test directories will
be treated as outside the casa namespace and will be processed in the same
fashion as consortia packages (see explanation below).

Though the consortia packages may wish to exclude "using namespace casa" from 
some of their source files, it is outside the scope of this change proposal 
to address (it wouldn't be feasible to manually diagnose whether to use 
namespace scoping rather than including the complete namespace for every 
file).  For this reason, (within source files) full namespace inclusion will 
be used.

The consortia packages header files will need to be manually changed to scope 
(casa::) any items referenced that are within the casa namespace in order to 
avoid namespace inclusion (using namespace casa) within header files.

Just as in the doxygen change proposal, I believe that a code freeze (of less 
than half a day) should occur once the script has been refined and thoroughly 
tested.

The C++ source and header templates and the code review document will need to 
be modified to add the namespace and using statements.
	
